Copyright 2025 James Gooch

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person (henceforth referred to with the second-person English pronouns) obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

All of this notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

If you deploy or use the code, pictures, text, etc. provided with this Software (hereafter referred to as 'Resources') in a context where users are not expected or required to pay or otherwise transfer or exchange money or goods (hereafter referred to as "transact") with you or your agents or representatives, and receive nothing in return for gifts or donations, all Resources may be accessed and used under the terms listed above.

If you deploy or use Resources in a context where users transact with, donate to, or give gifts to you or your agents or representatives for some benefit related to, pertaining to, or required by your software, site and/or services, hereafter referred to as "the product", "your product", or "products", and your product is grouped in the Commercial Category (which will be described in the next paragraph), the use of Resources are granted with the following additional requirements, which override any wording or phrasing above which would contradict them.

The Commercial Category consists of products whose goals can be described with the following outlines:
1) A means of electronically playing "Ultimate Tic-Tac-Toe", with the rules of play for a single game following the rules provided by Ben Orlin's most recent guide on the subject, or else an archive of said rules as they were available prior to June 10, 2025: https://mathwithbaddrawings.com/2013/06/16/ultimate-tic-tac-toe/
2) A means of electronically playing a game where players take turns moving around a map, playing 'cards', and taking special actions, with the goal of finding the location of a hidden 'objective' on that map, and either playing a card or taking a special action while that player is at that location to win the game.

When releasing your product to the public (which is defined as, you are accepting transactions with the reasonable expectation that users will thereafter receive some benefit related to, pertaining to, or required by your product) which incorporates Resources, you must contact James G (hereafter referred with first-person English pronouns), at my email address at mw@soopergrape.com, and notify me of your product's release. I reserve the right to reply and provide you with information about an email address of notice.

If I reply with this information, you must then provide a single account associated with the aforementioned email address of notice free access to your product within seven (7) days of its creation, in a tier or level of service reasonably understood by users to be the highest, best, and/or most expensive for customers or donators, until 21 years from my death, or 40 years from the date of release, whichever is later. If there are multiple top-level tiers, the operator of the email address of notice may select any single tier of his choice, with the ongoing option to change it to another tier in the future, under the same terms. If the operator of the email address of notice changes his email address via means provided by your product, all the privileges and terms associated with the original address of notice are transferred to the new one. Once the account has been provided with these privileges, the terms of this license that pertain to maintaining the privileges of or restricting the account will persist even if the product is changed to no longer use the Resources. If you later release a new product that is reasonably understood by users as being intended to replace or succeed the original product, the account must be dealt with under the same terms as for the original product.

Proposed disciplinary actions regarding the aforementioned account that would permanently restrict, limit or suspend the account's access to some aspect of your product (hereafter referred to as a 'ban') must be based on publicly posted Terms of Service, that apply equally and are enforced in a non-discriminatory manner to all users of your product (these terms hereafter to be referred to as "Public Terms"). 
In this case, you must contact me by the aforementioned means, no less than seven (7) days before the ban is performed. I reserve the right to reply with an objection within that time period. If this objection and/or following negotiations do not result in mutual agreement on the status of the ban, the matter will be resolved by binding arbitration with a third-party person or organization that you and I agree on, or, should you and I fail to agree on an arbitrator within 30 days of the ban, under the oversight of the American Arbitration Association. This arbitration will be handled by electronic means. I may withdraw an objection at any time prior to agreement on an arbitrator.

Temporary restrictions or disciplinary actions, hereafter referred to as a 'bind', based on Public Terms, that do not exceed two (2) weeks in length, are permissible provided that I am notified within 24 hours of such actions. I reserve the right to file an objection within 7 days of the bind, under the same terms previously listed in regards to bans.

Temporary product service outages and temporary service disruptions that apply equally to a reasonably large percentage of the active users of the product, and permanent discontinuations of the product that apply to all users, do not count as binds or bans.
