**What’s this?**  
“Ultimate” (often affectionately abbreviated as “ULT”) is an abstract strategy game where you are trying to get three tic-tac-toe boards in a row. To my knowledge, this is the best and most complete online version of the game that has ever been released.

**How do you play?**  
The board consists of 9 Tic-Tac-Toe boards, which have 9 squares each. The goal of the game is to capture 3 boards in a row (3br). You capture individual boards (which change color to match the capturing player’s color) by having pieces on 3 squares in a row, but the board you can move on at any given point in time is normally determined by which square was previously played on. For example, playing on the center square of a board means that your opponent will move on the center board on their next play.

There are 2 exceptions to this rule, where the player has what is called a ‘free move’, the ability to play on any unoccupied square on any uncaptured board:  
1\) At the beginning of the game, X begins play by choosing any square he likes.  
2\) If the board someone is being moved to cannot be moved on, whether because all the squares have been played on, or if it has been captured. No captured board can ever be moved on, even if it has squares that haven’t been played on.

When all of the squares in a board have been played on and it still hasn’t been captured, it is drawn. Drawn boards change color to a dark grey and can’t be part of a 3br, unlike a captured board.

A game can end with either a win or a draw. There are 3 ways to win a game, all of them effective as soon as it happens:  
1\) Getting 3 boards in a row.  
2\) Your opponent resigning.  
3\) Your opponent running out of time, in a timed game.

The game can be drawn according to these 3 means:  
1\) If both players agree to it.  
2\) If the system determines that, given the current captured boards, no combination of further captures could result in a 3br.  
3\) If there are no possible moves left for the player whose turn it is, by virtue of all the squares being filled or in captured boards, and there is no 3br.

You are likely to get the hang of it as you play, but for a more in-depth, illustrated explanation of the process, feel free to read over the most famous resource popularizing this game, Ben Orlin’s guide. https://mathwithbaddrawings.com/2013/06/16/ultimate-tic-tac-toe/

**How does the board notation work?**  
Boards, and their squares (or cells), are numbered in the fashion of a computer’s number pad. 1 is on the bottom left, 5 is in the center, and 9 is the top-right. Board 1 is thus the bottom-left board; square 5 is the center square on a board. A square has the board number first, and the square number second, so the top-left square of the center board is 57\.

When a move has been made, it generally consists of the move number (X always has an odd number, and O an even number; X’s first move is 1, O’s is 2, and so on), the square played on, and the time the move was made.

There are also some symbols for special circumstances, following, or sometimes in place of, square coordinates.

@: The standard time symbol, which is followed by text showing how much time the player had spent on all his moves, up to and including that move itself.  
\*: A free move symbol, which shows that this move was played on a square that would lead to a captured board, giving up a free move to the following player.  
**\#**: 3 boards in a row (3br). One of the players has just won the game by force.  
**\--**: Resigns. The player moving has given up the game.  
**\=**:  If this symbol is after the square coordinates, it means that the player offered a draw (with his move). If the symbol is by itself, it means the previous draw offer was accepted.  
**…**: The game was lost on time.

Here are some examples of moves in different games which illustrate this notation.  
1\. 55 @ 50s  
X has moved on the center square of the center board, with 50 seconds, total, removed from his time.

26\. 46 @ 1m 30s  
O has moved on the east square of the west board, with 1 minute and 30 seconds gone from his clock.

45\. 95\# @ 1h, 3m 57s  
X has moved on the center square of the northeast board, winning the game by capturing a third board in a row. He took 1 hour, 3 minutes, and 57 seconds to make all his moves.

41\. \-- @ 7m 51s  
X resigned, having spent a total of 7m and 51 seconds moving in this game.

19\. 34= @ 13m 32s  
X moved on the west square of the southeast board, offering a draw.

20\. \= @ 18m 1s  
O accepted X’s draw.

32\. … @ 30m  
O lost the game on time, in a game where she had only 30 minutes to make all her moves.

Bear in mind that the player does not insert these symbols into his moves; the interface offers other means of handling them. These are automatically generated by the system for the sake of helping players and viewers to understand what happened in the game.

**Understanding the lobby’s features**  
Like most of the site’s features, the lobby is split up into several levels, which are selected by pressing the ‘header buttons’ directly below the main menu at the top of the screen.

The levels are as follows:  
1\) Ultimate Tic-Tac-Toe  
2\) Public Matches  
3\) Your Matches (x out of y)  
4\) Your Invites (q out of z)

1\) “Ultimate Tic-Tac-Toe”  
This is the command center. While the other sections are mostly about viewing information about matches; this is where things get started.

The box here is split into three sections:  
1\) Create a Game  
The options in this form may be greyed out, depending on if you are eligible to use the feature. There are three categories of restrictions on eligibility:   
• You have to be logged in to do anything here. Guests can’t participate because they have no user ID to attach their actions to.  
• Members who are not subscribed to (paying for) this feature have restrictions on what options they can use when creating a match. These are denoted in the following text via single asterisks (\*).  
• There is a hard limit on how many matches anyone can be involved in at one time. Normally it is restricted to 3; subscribers can be in up to 12\.

Now, for a description of each of the options:  
a) Match length – how many games the match starts with.   
If you reach a point where your opponent cannot tie your score (with a win being worth 2 points, and a draw 1 point), even if they were to win all the remaining games in the match, you immediately win and end the match.  
This range includes many options, including 1 game, 12 games (the limit for non-subscribers), and, for subscribers, up to 40 games.  
b) Clock options  
This controls the amount of time that each player has in a game.  
ba) 1 year for each player:  
For untimed or correspondence-style matches. (‘1 year’ is intended to be permissive, not prescriptive\! Initially this option was called ‘No clock’. I changed it on the grounds that was not literally true, even though it practically is.) With this enabled, the system handles time differently than the other matches do. The in-game clocks don’t show how much time is left, and the system starts games automatically, instead of the players negotiating on times for games to begin.  
bb) 30 minutes for each player\*. This is a good length of time that is intended to create a ‘classical’ experience, with plenty of room for thought and player calculation, suitable to show the extent of the players’ mastery.  
bc) 15 minutes for each player\*. This is expedited ULT, corresponding to ‘rapid’ play in chess. This is the likely average length of a casual game in person. There is still time to think, but none to waste.

c) First Move options.  
ca) Standard. This is the default setting, and should provide sensible results for most matches. When playing matches of 2 games or more, the guest (the player joining the match) moves first in the first game, and it alternates between him and the host (the player who started the match) afterwards. In a 1-game match, the first mover is randomly decided.  
cb) Guest\*. The guest moves first in all games of the match. This is good if the host wants to practice playing with a handicap.  
cc) Random\*. The first mover is decided randomly in each game. This is ideal for a casual match, where the players are interested in trying out different things rather than in competition.  
cd) Host\*. The host moves first in all games of the match. This mode is restricted to private matches, because there is a prevalence of people on chess sites who only want to play as white, and we want to avoid that kind of thing here.

d) Misc. Options.  
da) Overtime/Tiebreaks.  
This determines what happens when two players are tied after having played all the regular games in the match. Normally, nothing happens and the match is drawn. With this checkbox selected, the system generates extra games until there is a decisive outcome in the match. The number of points needed to win varies depending on how long the existing match is:  
If the match is 1 game long, then 1 game (2 points) is enough to win OT.  
If the match is 2 games long, the system generates 2-game sets. Getting a 3-point lead (at least 1 win and 1 draw) is sufficient to win.  
If the match is 4 games or longer, a player must get a 4-point lead (2 wins) to win. These are total wins; they needn’t be consecutive.

db) Private.  
This determines whether the match can be seen by people who aren’t inside of it, in public lobbies/the match archive. If this is selected, you will either need to be in the match yourself, or to access the match through the special match code, to see it.

dc) Invite a player.  
You can type in a player’s name here, if you want to invite them to a match under the above conditions. They will be sent the request, and your invite will be shown in the Invite level.

dd) Start Match button.  
Once you’ve selected your options, press this button to get things going.

2\) View a Private Match  
This allows you, by entering a special code, to view the match that the code corresponds to.

3\) Subscription section.  
This shows you easy access to subscription-related links, the first one explaining how it works and why you may or may not want to subscribe, and the second taking you directly to the Middling subscription manager so that you can view all your subscriptions and make adjustments if you desire.

If you are subscribed, there will be a thank-you message at the top of this section.

2\) Public Matches  
This shows matches that are being advertised in public, and are awaiting a second player. It consists of a table which has four sections:  
a) Host: The name of the player hosting this match. If he is subscribed, a star will be at the end of his name. If you are eligible to join this match, there will be a “join” link to the right of his name.  
b) Best of: The length of the match.  
c) Rules: This succinctly shows the rule settings the host chose, e.g. the clock settings, whether OT is enabled, and who moves first. Default settings (like a “Standard” first mover, or no OT) may not be mentioned.  
d) Created: When the match was created.

3\) Your Matches (x out of y)  
This level shows all of the matches that you are involved in, as well as a selection of those you played in the recent past. The button shows first the number of matches you are in, and secondly the number of additional matches you can currently join or create. There are four sections, each with a table split into several columns:  
a) Active Matches  
This shows the matches that you are in that are actually ongoing; at least one game in the match has started or been played.  
aa) Opponent: The name of your opponent.  
ab) Score: The current game score, in the following format: Your score – Their score – (Total points still available). If you have played 5 games, won 2 and drawn 3, in a 12-game match, this would be 7-3 (14). The score listing is a link which takes you directly to a page showing details on this match.  
ac) Rules: Shows the rules the host chose, the same as in public matches.  
ad) The status of the next game. This can have several forms:  
• If there’s no game at present, and the players haven’t set the same time for when the next one should be, the game status is “Negotiating”.  
• If the players have set the same time but the game hasn’t started yet, then the date and time of the game will be shown here.  
• If the game has started, this is reported as “In progress…” If you are in the game and it’s your turn, it will additionally read “(move\!)”

b) Hosted Matches  
This shows matches that you have hosted where a game has not yet started. It contains the same fields as the Public Matches table, except with a “Guest” column instead of a “Host” column. The “Created” column will include a “stop” link, which allows you to call off the match, deleting it from the database.

c) Joined Matches  
This shows matches you have joined where a game has not started. It contains the same fields as the Public Matches table. The “Created” column will include a “leave” link, which allows you to withdraw from the match, leaving it open for another player to join.

d) Your Last 7 Completed Matches  
This shows some of the matches you’ve finished lately. The list begins with the most recently concluded and works its way down. The first three columns are the same as in Active Matches. The last column, “Finished”, shows when the match was concluded, and whether it was a win, loss, or draw.

4\) Your Invites (q out of z)  
This level is used to manage your invites to play with other players, both invites you have extended and that have been offered to you. The first number shows how many active invites you have sent; the second, the total number of invites you can send. There are two sections below with a table each:

1\) Invites You Sent  
This follows the same format as the “Hosted Matches” table, except that the ‘stop’ link is renamed ‘cancel’.

2\) Invites To You  
This follows the same format as the “Joined Matches” table. In the “Created” section, you get two links, “accept” or “decline”. If you are eligible to join the match, you can click the “accept” link, and this invite will be turned into a match. If you decline, the invite will be removed from the database.

**Understanding the match page’s features**  
This page contains all the information you need to know about the match: who is playing, what the rules and current scores are, when the games took place or will take place and what their outcomes were, and more. Although I feel this screen is largely self-explanatory, there are a few features, especially the scheduling system, which merit description.

All interface elements which are not available to the user (for example, the “Leave Match” button, for someone who is not in the match, or for a player after the match has begun) are disabled (greyed out).

The first section shows the player names (the guest may be “none yet”, if a player hasn’t joined the match yet), the rules of the match, and number of games won and drawn by each player, in the format ‘Host Wins-Drawn Games-Guest Wins’. This counts games, *not* points\!

Below this, there is the game list, which wants elaboration. It consists of five columns:  
1\) \#, or the game number. This contains what number the game is in the match.  
2\) Date. This field varies depending on the status of the match, the game, and you as a user.  
For a game that hasn’t started, if you are involved in the game, it will show a date-time input field, an input checkbox, and a string of text, depending on what time your opponent selected. If their time differs from yours, it will show their selected date-time. If they haven’t chosen one, it will read “Unset”. If they have set a time and it’s the same as yours, you will see a checkmark (🗸).  
 The date-time input allows you to select virtually any value you like, but for it to be accepted by the server, it must:  
1\) Be after the present time  
2\) The minute field must be either 00 or 30, because the server only automatically starts scheduled games every half-hour.

Later games must be set at times equal to or later than earlier games. If your submissions violate these requirements, the server will round them to some future time that will probably not match what you had in mind. If a game ends after the next game is scheduled to begin, the next game will begin immediately.

With the checkbox selected, the form will ignore the date-time input, and instead change your time setting to agree with whatever your opponent chose. This saves you the trouble of typing in the same thing that they did when you are satisfied with their selection.

If the game hasn’t started and you aren’t involved in the game, the times each player has proposed will be shown. If a player hasn’t decided on a time, their time will be shown as “Unset”. If both players have agreed on a time (or if both players’ times are “Unset”), that will be shown by itself.  
If the game has started or completed, the time that the game started will be shown, to all players.  
If the game is coming up in a 1-year match, the text status will read “Pending”. No player intervention is needed; the game will be automatically started as needed by the server when all previous games have been resolved.  
If the match is completed and the game was never played, the status will read “Not needed”.

3\) Leader.  
This shows the name of the player who will have the first move in this game.

4\) Outcome.  
This shows the outcome of the game, whether it was a win for one player or another,  or a draw; and the match notation symbol showing the circumstances of the outcome (\# for 3br, \-- for resignations, \= for a draw, etc). For example, an outcome might read “Tester won (--)”. In the case of a win, the box is colored to match the winning player’s color; it is grey if the game is drawn.

5\) Score.  
This shows, in points, the current game score, with the format “Host’s score-Guest’s score”. If one player is leading, the box is given their color; otherwise it is grey.

Below this table, there is an “Update Times” button, which is used to submit changes to the game schedule, if you are an active player. It is greyed out for those not involved in the game, or when the match is completed.

Below the Update button, there’s a short string showing the match’s status. There are three states:  
• Open, showing a match that hasn’t had any games played or started yet. Players can join or leave the game, and the host can still cancel the match.  
• Active, showing a match in which at least one game has begun.  
• Completed, for a match that has had a final outcome, whether win or draw.

Below the status, there is a checkbox and “Start Now?” button. When the other player has checked the box, this turns into a “Start Now\!” button, and pressing it begins the next game immediately, regardless of when the scheduled time is. This can be used to get matches going quickly and avoid a half-hour wait. 1-year matches may be initially started by this means, but do not require it afterwards, since every game after the first game begins immediately following the previous one.

Below this, there is a “Resign” box. It contains the Resign Match button and two adjacent checkboxes which must both be checked, to ensure the player truly wants to resign and isn’t doing this by mistake.

Below this is the Leave Match button, which allows the host to drop the match, or the guest to leave it, in a similar manner as the stop/leave links do on the lobby page.

Finally, at the bottom, the secret match code (which allows people to access or join the match by putting it into the appropriate field on the lobby page) is displayed, along with the dates that the match was created and last updated.

**Understanding the play page’s features**  
Because of the time-sensitive nature of playing an ULT game, especially in a timed game, this is one of the few ULT pages to incorporate JavaScript as a major assistive element. While the site will still work without it, users should find these features to offer superior ergonomics and efficiency.

For as long as the page is up, and you are not the active player, the script periodically checks in with the server to see if there have been any new moves. If there have been, the page is refreshed to show what happened. The longer it has been since the opponent’s move, the less frequent the checking:

\<1 minute – 1 second delay  
\<5 minutes – 5 seconds  
\<15 minutes – 15 seconds  
\<30 minutes – 1 minute  
\>60 minutes – 15 minutes

The left side, and most prominent feature of the screen, is the game board. It features an array of 3x3 Tic-Tac-Toe boards, separated by mid-width grey lines. When a piece has been played on a cell, it will show the X or O, along with the player’s background color (a tealish blue for the host, and an orangish yellow for the guest). If that board has been captured by a player, all the squares on that board, occupied or not, take on the background color of the capturing player, and pieces belonging to the opponent on that board will appear faded and italicized. The most recent piece played on the board will appear with a dramatic gradient behind it, instead of the normal flat background.

When it is your opponent’s turn, valid squares on the board appear in a light form of his color. When it is yours, valid squares appear in white, and darken when you mouse over them. “Free move” squares in uncaptured boards are colored a distinct dark blue with white text.

When it is your turn, if JavaScript is enabled, you can move by double-clicking on a valid square on the board. The first click puts the square coordinates in the move box; a click on the square after those coordinates are in it submits the move. If you check the ‘draw’ checkbox before clicking on the board, your move will include a draw offer.

The right side of the screen is separated into three general sections: the match info box, the control panel, and the time/move box.

1\) The match info box  
This is similar to the information listed at the top of the Match page. It features the names of the host and guest (however, the name of the player who moves first in this game is listed first, all across this page, rather than the host’s name being first), as well as the rules and the current match score.

There are a few differences which are worth mentioning. The section showing the length of the match is a link which takes you back to the match page. At the bottom of the rules section, there are up to two links which can appear, depending on whether this game is completed and if future games in the match were needed, which allow you to move to the previous game or the next game in the match, respectively. The score section shows the number of points each player has (at the rate of 2 for a win, 1 for a draw), not the number of wins or draws. Finally, when the game is completed, an Analyze link will appear. This currently exports the game’s moves into a link that is understood by Arkadiusz Nowaczyński’s uttt.ai page, allowing you to postmortem the game with assistance from a high-powered bot.

2\) The control panel  
There are three sets of inputs here, all of which are potentially important, although JavaScript can mitigate the need to physically interact with some of them. All these options are disabled if it is not your move, and/or if the game is not active.

The first is the move input box, and the Move button. To use this, type the number of any valid square coordinate into the box and press “Move”.

The second is the Draw box. It features a checkbox (to make sure that you don’t accidentally offer a draw), and a “Draw?” button. To offer a draw, fill in the move input box with a valid move, hit the draw checkbox, and hit the “Draw?” button. When your opponent has *offered* a draw, the button will read “Draw\!” and you only need to hit the checkbox before clicking the button. Your opponent’s draw offer, if not accepted, expires after you move.

Finally, there is the Resign box. If you decide the situation is hopeless and that there’s no point in playing on, click both checkboxes in this box, and then hit the Resign Game button. You must press the Resign button to actually resign; if you check the checkboxes and make a regular move, or offer a draw, it will be assumed that you intended to play on and the resign checkboxes will be ignored.

3\) The time/move box  
At the top of this section, in two boxes that are visually similar to the score boxes, you can see how much time is left for each player, measured in minutes and seconds. With JavaScript enabled, this time is constantly updated to show how much time you or your opponent runs. If a player loses on time, the page will automatically update to reflect that.

The exception to this is in a 1-year game, which shows a single dash (-) in the place of the time display, and doesn’t do anything special to manage timeouts.

Below this, there is a box showing each player’s moves, with the background and text colors that correspond to each player. The player who moves first has their moves shown on the left side; the second mover’s moves are on the right. The notation follows the pattern described in “How does the board notation work”. 

**Why aren’t there shorter time controls?**  
Because I feel it tends to make the game more about reflexes than it does thought. Also, while this kind of play is prevalent in the chess world, where people have already learned a lot about the game and its patterns, our understanding of ULT is not as advanced. I would rather people think about how to play ULT for a while, before they play without thinking.

There are also practical considerations, given that I have a less expensive server setup, and that server has to do all the processing. Doing blitz or bullet ULT means that we would have a ton of requests in short periods of time, and we would probably end up with many, many more matches and games in the database. That might be justified if the games were good, but I don’t think having a complete archive of millions of badly played ULT games edifies anyone.  
   
What’s the version history?  
1.0.0 came out x/x/2025.